All right.
So before we proceed to writing new tests, I do actually want to show you a small issue that is hiding
in our test suite.
It's not readily apparent right now, but it is there.
And I want to explain what is causing this issue and why it is a bad thing.
So just allows us to use a very special function called f, i, t or fit instead of it.
And what it allows us to do is to run one test in the file in isolation.
So instead of running the entire job listings file, I can focus on only one test.
And of course, the advantage of that is that that one test will run quicker than the entire test suite.
And the other benefit is that I can run that test in isolation.
So let me show you what happens when I run the test from the previous lesson in isolation.
This one right here displays page number one.
I'm going to change this function from it.
To fit at the F, by the way, is short for focus.
So focus on this IT function.
That's what we're basically telling.
Just just focus on this test.
Don't worry about anything else.
Let me save this file, which will trigger the test suite to rerun.
And you're going to notice our test pass.
But now we get a console warning.
Very interesting, right.
The first question we must have here is why are we getting this console warning when we run this test
in isolation?
But we don't get this warning when we run the entire test suite as a whole.
This is generally a very, very bad thing because this is a big hint that we have something called test
pollution.
What is test pollution?
It means that something that we have left over from a previous test is affecting the result in the next
test.
The reason we weren't seeing this warning when we were running the test suite as a whole is because
some previous test was changing some kind of setting that was allowing this test to run without warning.
And of course, the issue about this, the problem with this is that our tests are not independent.
They're dependent on some kind of additional setup that is coming from a previous test.
And this can become very hard to debug.
Imagine somebody in our situation.
Imagine somebody seeing a test suite that is perfectly green with no warnings focusing on one test and
now see a warning like this.
They have no clue what is enabling this warning right now, where it's coming from, which previous
test set up this scenario that now does no longer exist when we're running this test in isolation.
Right.
So this is an issue and I want to show you how to fix it.
Well, let's read the warning that we get here.
And it says On handled error during execution of mounted hook.
And if I scroll a little bit up, we see an error we've actually seen before on handle the promise rejection
warning type error cannot be property data of undefined.
Where are we reading the property data?
Anywhere in our component.
It's right here in our mounted lifecycle.
Look, as a reminder, this is the function where we make a call to the API to get jobs.
Axios gives us an object with a data property and then we get our jobs away from that data property.
Right in earlier tests to mock out Axios, what we did is this syntax right here.
We said to just go to the get method and pretend as if you're a promise it's going to resolve to give
me an object with a data property that's going to be an array of 15 items.
Or alternatively, give me a data property that is an array of an empty array.
It doesn't really matter what kind of array we have.
What matters is that we have an object that we are getting back as the kind of promise resolved value
from the get method.
Well, what was happening earlier is when we were running the test suite, these tests were running
first.
So they were setting up this logic.
And thus when we were mounting our job listings component in this test, this one new from this logic
right here that it had to replace Axios, get with that mock resolved value, right?
So in other words, this is the line that is polluting.
This is the line that is continuing after this test is done running.
We have overridden the Get method to make resolve to this a return value or this resolved value to be
more specific because it is asynchronous and this logic is persisting or holding on after this test
is done.
And it was that persistence that allowed this test to run without warning because if it ran in order
to the whole test suite, this still exists.
Thus this test doesn't have any issue getting a resolved value from get and thus it was still passing.
But now that we are running this test in isolation, this line from the previous test no longer ran,
and thus this test is saying, Hey, in my mounted lifecycle, look, I don't know, I don't know what
get is it returning back to me.
It is still knocked out by the way, because we are using just mock up above, but it is marked out
with the just default implementation of what a mark is supposed to return rather than our own custom
one right here.
So when that happens, whatever just returns our test says I can't read the property date of that of
undefined I.
I know what that is.
And that's that is the issue we have here.
The issue is is pollution.
So obviously a really simple issue that we can do, a solution that we can do is to copy and paste this
code below, and we can do that in every single test.
But it's important that we also think about how we can make this test suite a little bit better so that
we can avoid this issue in the future.
One way that we can make this issue better is by cleaning up after every test.
So in other words, after each IT function runs, what I can say is, hey, go back to the Axios, get
method and make sure it is the default mark.
Don't, don't give it the new resolved value that I provided in any given test.
Return it back to the just default resolved value, which is undefined.
So what I'd like to do is to run a little bit of logic after each test.
And the way I can do that ingest is by using a special function called after each.
Earlier in the course we use the before each function in order to run some kind of code before each
test.
This is the inverse.
This allows us to run something after each test, and that's what allows us to clean up any mocks that
we have set up in any of our individual tests.
So I'm going to scroll to the very top of this file.
Above all my logic here, and I'm going to write after each.
And after each is invoked and we provide it with a function and this is a function that just is going
to run once after each test.
So when I say test, I mean this thing right here, it's going to run that.
It's going to run the function after each.
This is another test that is going to run and it's going to follow that up by running after each function.
Same thing here.
So we have a total of four tests in this file.
So in this scenario, Jess is going to run the after each function right here four times, once after
each one of those test runs.
So what I want to do here is I want to get my Axios object, I want to get its get method because that's
the one that we currently are marking out or specifying a different result value for in the test below.
And in order to return it back to the default, just mock implementation.
What I can do is invoke a method called mock reset.
So to clarify what this is doing, we are not bringing Axios and the get method back to the original
Axios implementation.
We're still not using the real access object.
What we are doing instead is clearing this thing right here or this line right here.
We are clearing our custom implementation that we may have set up in our own test that specifies what
the get method will resolve or return whenever it is invoked in our component.
All right.
So we are still separating ourselves from Axios.
We are now protecting ourselves from ourselves, from our own custom implementations of how we want
get to work for any given test.
So I'm going to save this.
And we're going to see now that if I get rid of the the fight here and go back to the regular function
call, we're now going to run the entire test as a whole.
But now we're going to get the council warnings even as we run the test as a whole.
And that's a good thing, because now we've ensured that this problem is apparent and present in the
right circumstance.
Right.
Because what's happening now is even if the test runs in order, well, this logic is going to run.
We're going to mock the resolve value right here to be an object with a data property.
But at the end of this test, we're going to bring it back to the default just implementation of Axios
get, which is just a basic function that returns undefined.
And thus this test right here starts off without knowing anything about what Axios get is supposed to
do.
To be more specific, it falls back to the digest way of doing things and thus because just does not
give an object with a data property.
It gives us the warning that we want right here.
So of course, the very simple way that we can now continue is to copy this code and paste it right
here.
And paste the right here as well.
All right.
So now we are setting up our custom results value in each independent test.
And then after each test, we're going ahead and we're clearing up that implementation right here to
guarantee that our tests are independent and isolated from each other.
Now, you might notice that just about in every test we are using this logic at the very beginning of
the respective test.
So what we can do now is move that duplication to its own separate before each function called because
remember we can use before each to run some logic before each test.
So let me show you how that's going to work.
I'm going to copy this line right here, and I'm going to go all the way to the top of the file and
right here above the of after each, I'm going to write my before each function again.
This is a function built into just we pass it, a function that just will run before each test.
So before each test, I want to tell just to go to the Axios, get method wherever it's being used and
whenever it's invoked.
I want just to treat it like it's a promise that resolves to return a value that's going to be an object
with a data properties set to an array of 15 items.
And of course, I am going to clear this after every test, just to be sure that we are returning everything
back to its original just implementation.
I know it might seem redundant because we are setting things up, running our test and in tearing things
down only to set them up again in the next test.
But the reason this is beneficial is because it ensures true isolation and independence between the
tests.
There's no way that we can now have pollution because we are guaranteed to be resetting everything after
each individual test runs, only to start things up again from the beginning for the subsequent test
that runs afterwards.
All right, so if I save this, everything is still going to pass.
But now we can clean up some of the duplication in an individual test because we know that before each
logic will handle it.
With that said, as I've talked about many times earlier, duplication is not the worst thing in the
world.
Right.
So let me show you a scenario where I think that that is the case.
If I scroll down here in my first test, I care that this test checks that the component fetches jobs
by hitting the.
The this API right here, this URL do I care about what Axios get is specifically returning to me?
Do I care that it is a an object with a data property set to an empty array?
Or is it okay if it happens to be this default implementation right here with a data property set to
an array of 15 items?
To be honest, I don't really care what my fake function returns to me, I just care that it's invoked.
So for me, in this scenario, I think that we can remove this line right here.
All right.
We don't need to override our before each implementation because it doesn't really matter for what this
test cares about.
Here we have the exact same code as we have an hour before each, so we technically don't need this
line.
I can comment out this line and this test will still pass.
Right?
However, I prefer to keep this duplication in here because instead of the user having to scroll to
the top to figure out what Axios get is, I can keep this in here to communicate to them that I am getting
an array of 15 items, but I'm only showing ten job listings.
I think this context is important to understanding the actual assertion we're making down here, and
I don't want the user to scroll all the way back up to find out that this 15 has relevance in this test
right here.
So yes, this is duplication.
In fact, it's making JavaScript do the same thing twice because the before each is going to do this
logic and then my function or my assertion here is going to do it again.
However, I'm okay with this duplication because I think it benefits readability and comprehension for
other developers.
Right.
Right here when we are testing whether our query params display the relevant page number, I don't really
care what the get method returns at all.
It's not pertinent or relevant to this logic right here.
So I do need actions that get to give me a valid object so that my mounted hook does not fail or give
me the warning.
But I don't care what this is, so I don't care if the user scrolls up to look at it because it's something
that's secondary and not specifically important to this test right here, which cares about the display
of page one when there are no query params.
Similarly for this test down below, I don't care what the Axios get promise resolves to.
The user can scroll up and find out.
But for the purposes of understanding this test, this is not important information so I can remove
it.
So in the before each to summarize, I've put the logic that a test may need to have in order to have
a normal mount with no errors or warnings.
However, I have put the logic there that I don't really care if another user sees or worries about
right.
I want each test to read like an independent chunk of logic describing some user value and the before
age can be like complementary information or supplementary data that you may want to know about the
test.
But that isn't critical for you to know in order for you to understand how this test runs.
So that kind of determines the line that I draw as far as what I put into the before each and what I
put into an individual test.
Right?
In this test, I do care about informing the user that this array of 15 items has relevance to my assertion.
So I am going to keep this duplicate code here for all my other tests.
I'm going to move that same piece of logic upwards to them before each function.
All right.
And then, of course, for any test, I'm still going to keep my after each because I do want to make
sure I clean up anything that the Axios get Mark does for me right here.
I'm always going to clean it up after every test to ensure we don't have any pollution.
This has been a super, super complex issue and a super complex lesson, but I hope it all makes sense
and I will see you in the next one.